RUNNING THE EXAMPLES

Here are some sugarlisp examples that run in node.js, in the browser, or both.

* Running in node.js

SugarLisp is a transpiler i.e. a compiler that translates from lisp to javascript.

The compiler command is named "sugar".

To see all of sugar's options enter (in a shell window):

  sugar --help

To run one of the examples in node you can start by compiling the .slisp file e.g.:

  sugar snippets.slisp

This will produce the file "snippets.js".

Then you can run the javascript file with node:

  node snippets.js

Alternatively, you can run from .slisp files directly using the sugar command in lieu of node with:

  sugar -r snippets.slisp

* Running in the browser:

SugarLisp can (optionally) compile and run sugarlisp code right in the browser.

See e.g. the "Run in the browser" example at:

    http://sugarlisp.com/docs/#browserrunning

Note that compiling in the browser is not recommended for production use as there's a performance overhead.

Yet you may find it useful for debugging or experimentation.

The "runinbrowser" directory here contains a copy of the example above.

To run this or other such "in browser" examples you must serve the files from a web server.

If you simply open the index.html file directly you will get an error due to cross origin ajax requests.

To make things easy we've included the small web server called "ecstatic" in the examples directory.

Before running it the first time do the following to get it ready:

   cd sugarlisp/examples
   npm install ecstatic
   sugar ecstatic.slisp

Then from the examples directory simply run:

    node ecstatic.js

Then to run an example hit it from your browser e.g.:

    http://localhost:3000/runinbrowser/index.html

If "browser-bundle.js" isn't found, make sure:
a.  That you started your web server from "examples".
b.  That the sugarlisp-browser-bundle.js and sugarlisp-browser-bundle-min.js.gz file exists there.

For mac and linux users the checked-in browser bundle files are linked under the examples directory.

For windows users (where github has trouble reproducing links) you should (at least once) do:

  sugar -b

To create the browser bundle files in the examples directory.

Note to developers:

  You can rebuild new browser bundle files using e.g. "npm run prepublish".

* Trying the in-browser REPL

A version of the breakout game is also provided as a "run in browser" example.

This example is also setup with the "in-browser repl".

When served from a web server you hit this example with:

    http://localhost:3000/breakout/inbrowser.html

Once the page is displayed and running, hitting ctrl-v should open the repl at the right of your page.

(hitting ctrl-x would have opened it at the bottom)

A prompt should display where you can enter sugarlisp commands much the same as the server-side "sugar" repl.

With the breakout game running see what happens when you enter e.g.:

    (set ballY 0)

Now you see - the in-browser repl is a way to cheat!! :)

If you were debugging this program, you might like to pause the game while you inspect it.  Try:

    (set pause true)

See what the current paddle position is by entering:

    paddleX

Try rendering the next frame by entering e.g.:

    (drawFrame)

Up arrow and re-run "(drawFrame)" three times.  The ball should advance with each frame.

Start the game running again by entering:

    (set pause false)

Note:  The "pause" option is not part of the in-browser repl, that's a feature of the game's code.

Hit ctrl-v (or ctrl-x) again to toggle the repl closed.

You can toggle it open or closed as many times as you like, your command history will be remembered unless you refresh the page.

* Considerations re: "Run in browser" Modules versus Global Scoping:

The "inbrowser.html" version of the breakout game includes it's sugarlisp inline in a script tag like: 

    <script type="text/sugarlisp">(game code)</script>

This is not required to use the in-browser repl, it was just done for demonstration.

It would have worked just as well with an external .slisp file like:

    <script type="text/sugarlisp" id="breakout" src="breakout.slisp"></script>

That style is used in the other example here in the "runinbrowser" directory.

Note however this script tag includes an "id" we did not include in our breakout example's script tag.

When you give an "id" you're saying to hide the variables of the code exactly as a node.js ("CommonJS") module would.

We chose to omit the "id" in the breakout example which is why the repl could see the game variables directly.

If we hadn't, we'd have had to do additional things at our repl command line like:

    (var breakout (require 'breakout'))

And defined a variable like "breakout" as a handle to access exported module variables.

If using the module style with "id", you might remove the "id" while using the in-browser repl, but put it back for production.

Or you might choose (as we've done in this example) to simply not use the "module" concept, especially for simple examples or a demo.

(thus making your in-browser sugarlisp variables globally scoped, as javascript has traditionally been, for better and for worse!!)

